# Recent Publications

...and pre-prints, etc.*

Last updated: April 10, 2024

<span style="font-size:0.7em;padding-bottom:10px">
    *This list is procured from OpenAlex, so any mistakes from OpenAlex will appear here as well.
</span>

---
**Data-Driven Modeling of Dislocation Mobility from Atomistics using
  Physics-Informed Machine Learning**

Yifeng Tian, Soumendu Bagchi, Liam Myhill, Giacomo Po, Enrique Martínez, Yen Ting Lin, Nithin Mathew, Danny Pérez

March 20, 2024

<sub><sup>
Dislocation mobility, which dictates the response of dislocations to an applied stress, is a fundamental property of crystalline materials that governs the evolution of plastic deformation. Traditional approaches for deriving mobility laws rely on phenomenological models of the underlying physics, whose free parameters are in turn fitted to a small number of intuition-driven atomic scale simulations under varying conditions of temperature and stress. This tedious and time-consuming approach becomes particularly cumbersome for materials with complex dependencies on stress, temperature, and local environment, such as body-centered cubic crystals (BCC) metals and alloys. In this paper, we present a novel, uncertainty quantification-driven active learning paradigm for learning dislocation mobility laws from automated high-throughput large-scale molecular dynamics simulations, using Graph Neural Networks (GNN) with a physics-informed architecture. We demonstrate that this Physics-informed Graph Neural Network (PI-GNN) framework captures the underlying physics more accurately compared to existing phenomenological mobility laws in BCC metals.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2403.14015](https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2403.14015)

---
**Shock wave induced migration of an edge dislocation dipole in alpha-Fe**

Santiago Heredia-Ávalos, Cristian D. Denton, Juan Carlos Moreno-Marı́n, Enrique Martínez, M.J. Caturla

March 01, 2024

<sub><sup>
The mobility of a 1/2〈111〉{110} edge dipole in alpha-iron has been studied using molecular dynamics simulations. Collision cascades generated by keV recoils have been shown to induce the migration of dislocations. In order to elucidate the origin of the motion of these dislocations, and separate the production of defects from temperature or pressure effects, a stressed region of different shapes (sphere and cylinder) is simulated close to the edge dipole. We observe that the generated shock wave triggers the movement of the dislocations even when no defects are produced. The shape of the distorted region and the character of the dislocations influence the way the dislocations move, due to the change in Peach-Koehler force direction and to the fact that the shock waves arrive to the different parts of the dislocations at different times.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnucmat.2023.154878](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnucmat.2023.154878)

---
**Stochastic Integration of the Cahn-Hilliard Phase Field Equations**

Qianran Yu, Nicholas Julian, Jaime Marian, Enrique Martínez

February 12, 2024

<sub><sup>
In this work we develop a stochastic algorithm to integrate the Cahn-Hilliard equations. The algorithm is based on Gillespie's stochastic simulation algorithm, also known as kinetic Monte Carlo. The deterministic integration of the phase field equations leads to the closest minimum of free energy and does not overcome free energy barriers. However, in the nucleation and growth regime of the phase diagram, free energy barriers need to be thermally overcome for the system to phase separate to reach equilibrium. We show in this work that the proposed stochastic integration algorithm indeed allows the system to overcome free energy barriers. We discuss the results in terms of fluctuation distributions, grid sizes and efficiency.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2402.08034](https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2402.08034)

---
**Langmuir-like model of dilute impurities in concentrated solid solutions**

Jacob Jeffries, Enrique Martínez

February 11, 2024

<sub><sup>
High-entropy alloys have drawn recent interest for their promising mechanical properties and irradiation resistance. Various properties, namely transport properties, are controlled by point defect concentration, which must be known before performing atomistic simulations to compute transport coefficients. In this work, we present a general Langmuir-like model for impurity concentration in an arbitrarily complex solid solution and apply this model to generate expressions for concentrations of vacancies and small interstitial atoms. We then calculate the vacancy concentration as a function of temperature in the equiatomic CoNiCrFeMn and FeAl alloys with modified embedded-atom-method potentials for various chemical orderings, showing there is no clear correlation between vacancy thermodynamics and chemical ordering in the CoNiCrFeMn alloy but clear systematic patterns for FeAl.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2402.07324](https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2402.07324)

---
**From anti-Arrhenius to Arrhenius behavior in a dislocation-obstacle
  bypass: Atomistic Simulations and Theoretical Investigation**

Mohammadhossein Nahavandian, Samir Sarkar, Soumendu Bagchi, Danny Pérez, Enrique Martínez

March 28, 2024

<sub><sup>
Dislocations are the primary carriers of plasticity in metallic material. Understanding the basic mechanisms for dislocation movement is paramount to predicting the material mechanical response. Relying on atomistic simulations, we observe a transition from non-Arrhenius to Arrhenius behavior in the rate for an edge dislocation to overcome the elastic interaction with a prismatic loop in tungsten. Beyond the critical resolved shear stress, the process shows a non-Arrhenius behavior at low temperatures. However, as the temperature increases, the activation entropy starts to dominate, leading to a traditional Arrhenius behavior. We have computed the activation entropy analytically along the minimum energy path following Schoeck's methods [1], which capture the cross-over between anti-Arrhenius and Arrhenius domains. Also, the Projected Average Force Integrator (PAFI) [2], another simulation method to compute free energies along an initial transition path, exhibits considerable concurrence with Schoeck's formalism. We conclude that entropic effects need to be considered to understand processes involving dislocations bypassing elastic barriers close to the critical resolved shear stress. More work needs to be performed to fully understand the discrepancies between Schoeck's and PAFI results compared to molecular dynamics.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.commatsci.2024.112954](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.commatsci.2024.112954)

---
**Predicting short-range order evolution in WTaCrVHf refractory high-entropy alloys**

Andrew Alvarado, Chanho Lee, Jan Wróbel, Damian Sobieraj, D. Nguyen-Manh, Jonathan D. Poplawsky, Saryu Fensin, Enrique Martínez, Osman El-Atwani

August 01, 2023

<sub><sup>
Short-range order (SRO) in multicomponent concentrated alloys affects their mechanical response. Hence, is paramount to understand how composition modifies the chemical ordering in the system to design materials with optimal properties. We present here a methodology to predict the SRO and thermodynamic properties in chemically complex systems and apply it to the WTaCrVHf quinary alloy. We observe that the addition of Hf significantly modifies the SRO, mainly at intermediate to low temperatures, matching experimental observations.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scriptamat.2023.115506](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scriptamat.2023.115506)

---
**Impact of Soret effect on hydrogen and helium retention in PFC tungsten under ELM-like conditions**

Dwaipayan Dasgupta, Sophie Blondel, Enrique Martínez, Dimitrios Maroudas, Brian D. Wirth

June 13, 2023

<sub><sup>
Abstract In our previous work, we have demonstrated using nonequilibrium molecular-dynamics simulations that the fluxes of helium and self-interstitial atoms in the presence of a thermal gradient in tungsten are directed opposite to the heat flux, indicating that species transport is governed by a Soret effect, namely, thermal-gradient-driven diffusion, characterized by a negative heat of transport that drives species transport uphill, i.e. from the cooler to the hot regions of the tungsten sample. In this work, the findings of our thermal and species transport analysis have been implemented in our cluster-dynamics code, Xolotl, which has been used to compute temperature and species profiles over spatiotemporal scales representative of plasma-facing component (PFC) tungsten under typical reactor operating conditions, including extreme heat loads at the plasma-facing surface characteristic of plasma instabilities that induce edge localized modes (ELMs). We demonstrate that the steady-state species profiles, when properly accounting for the Soret effect, vary significantly from those where temperature-gradient-driven transport is not accounted for and discuss the implications of such a Soret effect on the response to plasma exposure of plasma-facing tungsten. Although our cluster-dynamics simulations do not yet include self-clustering of helium or hydrogen blister formation, our simulation results show that the Soret effect substantially reduces helium and hydrogenic species retention inside PFC tungsten.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1088/1741-4326/acda4a](https://doi.org/10.1088/1741-4326/acda4a)

---
**Comparison of Dislocation Loop Formation Resistance in Nanocrystalline and Coarse-Grained Refractory High Entropy Alloys**

Osman El-Atwani, H.T. Vo, N. Krienke, Enrique Martínez, Jon K. Baldwin, Wei‐Ying Chen, Meimei Li, Saryu Fensin

May 08, 2023

<sub><sup>
In nanocrystalline high entropy alloys (HEAs), the difference in chemistry and the density of interfaces play a role in the microstructure evolution, although their relative importance is not well understood. Here, we compare data published in the literature regarding dislocation loop damage in pure W under ion irradiation to new results on nanocrystalline and coarse grained HEAs irradiated under single and dual ion beams. Dislocation loop damage evolution has been studied. The results suggest that both grain boundaries and grain matrices play important roles in the microstructure evolution of HEAs with grain matrices playing the dominant role. Irradiation response and dislocation loop damage in coarse-grained (a) and nanocrystallinegrained (b) W-based HEAs as compared to coarse-grained (c) and nanocrystalline-grained (d) pure W material.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1007/s44210-023-00013-z](https://doi.org/10.1007/s44210-023-00013-z)

---
**A quinary WTaCrVHf nanocrystalline refractory high-entropy alloy withholding extreme irradiation environments**

Osman El-Atwani, H.T. Vo, Matheus A. Tunes, C. Lee, Andrew Alvarado, N. Krienke, Jonathan D. Poplawsky, Aaron A. Kohnert, Jonathan Gigax, W.-Y. Chen, M. Li, Yongqiang Wang, Jan Wróbel, D. Nguyen-Manh, Jon K. Baldwin, O. U. Tukac, Eda Aydoğan, Saryu Fensin, Enrique Martínez

May 02, 2023

<sub><sup>
In the quest of new materials that can withstand severe irradiation and mechanical extremes for advanced applications (e.g. fission & fusion reactors, space applications, etc.), design, prediction and control of advanced materials beyond current material designs become paramount. Here, through a combined experimental and simulation methodology, we design a nanocrystalline refractory high entropy alloy (RHEA) system. Compositions assessed under extreme environments and in situ electron-microscopy reveal both high thermal stability and radiation resistance. We observe grain refinement under heavy ion irradiation and resistance to dual-beam irradiation and helium implantation in the form of low defect generation and evolution, as well as no detectable grain growth. The experimental and modeling results-showing a good agreement-can be applied to design and rapidly assess other alloys subjected to extreme environmental conditions.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-38000-y](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-38000-y)

---
**From high-entropy alloys to high-entropy ceramics: The radiation-resistant highly concentrated refractory carbide (CrNbTaTiW)C**

Matheus A. Tunes, Stefan Fritze, Barbara Osinger, Patrick Willenshofer, Andrew Alvarado, Enrique Martínez, Ashok S. Menon, Petter Ström, Graeme Greaves, Erik Lewin, Ulf Jansson, Stefan Pogatscher, Tarik A. Saleh, Vladimir Vishnyakov, Osman El-Atwani

May 01, 2023

<sub><sup>
High-entropy materials represent the state-of-the-art on the alloy design strategy for future applications in extreme environments. Recent data indicates that high-entropy alloys (HEAs) exhibit outstanding radiation resistance in face of existing diluted alloy counterparts due to suppressed damage formation and evolution. An extension of the HEA concept is presented in this paper towards the synthesis and characterization of novel high-entropy ceramics as emergent materials for application in environments where energetic particle irradiation is a major concern. A novel carbide within the quinary refractory system CrNbTaTiW has been synthesized using magnetron-sputtering. The material exhibited nanocrystalline grains, single-phase crystal structure and C content around 50 at.%. Heavy-ion irradiation with in-situ Transmission Electron Microscopy was used to assess the irradiation response of the new high-entropy carbide (HEC) at 573 K and a comparison with the HEA within the system is made. No displacement damage effects appear within the microstructures of both HEA and HEC up to a dose of 10 displacements-per-atom. Surprisingly, the HEC has not amorphized under the investigated conditions. Xe was implanted in both materials and bubbles nucleated, but smaller sizes compared with conventional nuclear materials shedding light they are potential candidates for use in nuclear energy.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2023.118856](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2023.118856)

---
**A methodology to generate crystal-based molecular structures for atomistic simulations**

Christian F. A. Negre, Andrew Alvarado, Himanshu Singh, Joshua M. Finkelstein, Enrique Martínez, Romain Perriot

March 24, 2023

<sub><sup>
We propose a systematic method to construct crystal-based molecular structures often needed as input for computational chemistry studies. These structures include crystal 'slabs' with periodic boundary conditions (PBCs) and non-periodic solids such as Wulff structures. We also introduce a method to build crystal slabs with orthogonal PBC vectors. These methods are integrated into our code,Los Alamos Crystal Cut(LCC), which is open source and thus fully available to the community. Examples showing the use of these methods are given throughout the manuscript.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-648x/acc294](https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-648x/acc294)

---
**Molecular-Dynamics Analysis of the Mechanical Behavior of Plasma-Facing Tungsten**

Asanka Weerasinghe, Enrique Martínez, Brian D. Wirth, Dimitrios Maroudas

January 31, 2023

<sub><sup>
We report a systematic computational analysis of the mechanical behavior of plasma-facing component (PFC) tungsten focusing on the impact of void and helium (He) bubble defects on the mechanical response beyond the elastic regime. Specifically, we explore the effects of porosity and He atomic fraction on the mechanical properties and structural response of PFC tungsten, at varying temperature and bubble size. We find that the Young modulus of defective tungsten undergoes substantial softening that follows an exponential scaling relation as a function of matrix porosity and He atomic content. Beyond the elastic regime, our high strain rate simulations reveal that the presence of nanoscale spherical defects (empty voids and He bubbles) reduces the yield strength of tungsten in a monotonically decreasing fashion, obeying an exponential scaling relation as a function of tungsten matrix porosity and He concentration. Our detailed analysis of the structural response of PFC tungsten near the yield point reveals that yielding is initiated by emission of dislocation loops from bubble/matrix interfaces, mainly 1/2⟨111⟩ shear loops, followed by gliding and growth of these loops and reactions to form ⟨100⟩ dislocations. Furthermore, dislocation gliding on the ⟨111⟩{211} twin systems nucleates 1/6⟨111⟩ twin regions in the tungsten matrix. These dynamical processes reduce the stress in the matrix substantially. Subsequent dislocation interactions and depletion of the twin phases via nucleation and propagation of detwinning partials lead the tungsten matrix to a next deformation stage characterized by stress increase during applied straining. Our structural analysis reveals that the depletion of twin boundaries (areal defects) is strongly impacted by the density of He bubbles at higher porosities. After the initial stress relief upon yielding, increase in the dislocation density in conjunction with decrease in the areal defect density facilitates the initiation of dislocation-driven deformation mechanisms in the PFC crystal.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c20795](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c20795)

---
**Predicting Short-Range Order Evolution in WTaCrVHf Refractory High-Entropy Alloys**

Andrew Alvarado, Chanho Lee, Jan Wróbel, Damian Sobieraj, D. Nguyen-Manh, Jonathan D. Poplawsky, Saryu Fensin, Enrique Martínez, Osman El-Atwani

January 01, 2023

<sub><sup>
Short-range order (SRO) in multicomponent concentrated alloys affects their mechanical response. Hence, is paramount to understand how composition modifies the chemical ordering in the system to design materials with optimal properties. We present here a methodology to predict the SRO and thermodynamic properties in chemically complex systems and apply it to the WTaCrVHf quinary alloy. We observe that the addition of Hf significantly modifies the SRO, mainly at intermediate to low temperatures, matching experimental observations.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4400796](https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4400796)

---
**From High-Entropy Alloys to High-Entropy Ceramics: The Radiation-Resistant Highly Concentrated Refractory Carbide (CrNbTaTiW)C**

Matheus A. Tunes, Stefan Fritze, Barbara Osinger, Patrick Willenshofer, Andrew Alvarado, Enrique Martínez, Ashok S. Menon, Petter Ström, Graeme Greaves, Erik Lewin, Ulf Jansson, Stefan Pogatscher, Tarik A. Saleh, Vladimir Vishnyakov, Osman El-Atwani

January 01, 2023

<sub><sup>

</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4349924](https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4349924)

---
**Interface dislocations and grain boundary disconnections using Smith normal bicrystallography**

Nikhil Chandra Admal, Tusher Ahmed, Enrique Martínez, Giacomo Po

November 01, 2022

<sub><sup>
The CSL/DSCL model for interfaces in crystalline materials offers a unified framework to study interface dislocations in phase boundaries and disconnections in grain boundaries. The model relies on the existence of a coincidence relation between the two lattices that meet at an interface. The model’s ability to quantitatively predict the thermodynamics and kinetics of interfaces has been demonstrated for a limited set of symmetric tilt grain boundaries (STGBs) in cubic materials and twin boundaries. However, the lack of a general framework of interface defects prevents its applicability to arbitrary rational boundaries. In this paper, we present a mathematical framework based on the Smith normal form (SNF) for integer matrices to study the bicrystallography of rational phase and grain boundaries. One of the main results of the paper is a constructive proof of the invariance of the coincident site lattice (CSL) under discrete relative displacements of the parent lattices (of possibly different kind) by a displacement shift complete lattice (DSCL) vector. In addition, we obtain necessary and sufficient conditions on two lattices, related by not only rotations but also lattice distortions, for the existence of a coincidence relation. We first apply these results to explore coincidence relations in arbitrary phase boundaries, and study interface dislocations. In particular, we demonstrate the framework for a phase boundary formed by a strained hexagonal lattice and a square lattice. As a second application, we show how to enumerate all possible (geometric) disconnection modes in arbitrary rational grain boundaries, including glide and non-glide modes in both STGBs and asymmetric-tilt grain boundaries (ATGBs). The constructive nature of the framework lends itself to an algorithmic implementation based exclusively on integer matrix algebra to construct all interfaces that admit CSLs up to a prescribed size, and determine disconnection modes in grain boundaries. We demonstrate the use of SNF bicrystallography on selected bicrystal misorientation axes/angles in face-centered cubic (fcc), body-centered cubic (bcc), and hexagonal (hex) lattices.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2022.118340](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2022.118340)

---
**Interstitial hydrogen enhances the mobility of some grain boundaries in tungsten**

Nithin Mathew, Danny Pérez, Wonjoon Suk, Blas P. Uberuaga, Enrique Martínez

June 13, 2022

<sub><sup>
Abstract Segregation of interstitials at a grain boundary (GB) is known to generally lower its mobility. This phenomenon, called ‘solute-drag’, has important ramifications on the process of recrystallization and microstructural evolution. In this manuscript, we present predictions from molecular dynamics (MD) simulations which demonstrate that interstitial hydrogen in tungsten can in fact increase the mobility of some GBs which exhibit shear coupling. Assuming a disconnection-based mechanism, activation energies and pre-factors for disconnection nucleation are predicted from simulations of shear-coupled motion. In GBs where enhanced mobility is predicted, interstitial H reduces both the activation energy and the pre-factor for disconnection nucleation, thus effectively increasing the mobility. For GBs with diminished mobility, MD predicts that presence of interstitial H reduces the pre-factor and, in some cases, increases the activation energy. The reduction in the activation energy inferred from MD simulations are confirmed by nudged elastic band calculations. Temperature-dependent structural transitions are observed for some GBs, and the effect of interstitial H is found to change with the changes in structure. The effect of interstitial H is predicted to be complex and highly variable, providing some plausible explanations for experimental observations on the recrystallization of tungsten in presence of H-loaded plasma.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1088/1741-4326/ac70e9](https://doi.org/10.1088/1741-4326/ac70e9)

---
**Atomistic and machine learning studies of solute segregation in metastable grain boundaries**

Yasir Mahmood, Maher Alghalayini, Enrique Martínez, Christiaan J. J. Paredis, Fadi F. Abdeljawad

April 23, 2022

<sub><sup>
The interaction of alloying elements with grain boundaries (GBs) influences many phenomena, such as microstructural evolution and transport. While GB solute segregation has been the subject of active research in recent years, most studies focus on ground-state GB structures, i.e., lowest energy GBs. The impact of GB metastability on solute segregation remains poorly understood. Herein, we leverage atomistic simulations to generate metastable structures for a series of [001] and [110] symmetric tilt GBs in a model Al-Mg system and quantify Mg segregation to individual sites within these boundaries. Our results show large variations in the atomic Voronoi volume due to GB metastability, which are found to influence the segregation energy. The atomistic data are then used to train a Gaussian Process machine learning model, which provides a probabilistic description of the GB segregation energy in terms of the local atomic environment. In broad terms, our approach extends existing GB segregation models by accounting for variability due to GB metastability, where the segregation energy is treated as a distribution rather than a single-valued quantity.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-022-10566-5](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-022-10566-5)

---
**Interface Dislocations and Grain Boundary Disconnections Using Smith Normal Bicrystallography**

Nikhil Chandra Admal, Enrique Martínez, Giacomo Po

January 01, 2022

<sub><sup>
The CSL/DSCL model for interfaces in crystalline materials offers a unified framework to study interface dislocations in phase boundaries and disconnections in grain boundaries. The model relies on the existence of a coincidence relation between the two lattices that meet at an interface. The model’s ability to quantitatively predict the thermodynamics and kinetics of interfaces has been demonstrated for a limited set of symmetric tilt grain boundaries (STGBs) in cubic materials and twin boundaries. However, the lack of a general framework of interface defects prevents its applicability to arbitrary rational boundaries. In this paper, we present a mathematical framework based on the Smith normal form (SNF) for integer matrices to study the bicrystallography of rational phase and grain boundaries. One of the main results of the paper is a constructive proof of the invariance of the coincident site lattice (CSL) under discrete relative displacements of the parent lattices (of possibly different kind) by a displacement shift complete lattice (DSCL) vector. In addition, we obtain necessary and sufficient conditions on two lattices, related by not only rotations but also lattice distortions, for the existence of a coincidence relation. We first apply these results to explore coincidence relations in arbitrary phase boundaries, and study interface dislocations. In particular, we demonstrate the framework for a phase boundary formed by a strained hexagonal lattice and a square lattice. As a second application, we show how to enumerate all possible (geometric) disconnection modes in arbitrary rational grain boundaries, including glide and non-glide modes in both STGBs and asymmetric-tilt grain boundaries (ATGBs). The constructive nature of the framework lends itself to an algorithmic implementation based exclusively on integer matrix algebra to construct all interfaces that admit CSLs up to a prescribed size, and determine disconnection modes in grain boundaries. We demonstrate the use of SNF bicrystallography on selected bicrystal misorientation axes/angles in face-centered cubic (fcc), body-centered cubic (bcc), and hexagonal (hex) lattices.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4138894](https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4138894)

---
**Thermal gradient effect on helium and self-interstitial transport in tungsten**

Enrique Martínez, Nithin Mathew, Danny Pérez, Sophie Blondel, Dwaipayan Dasgupta, Brian D. Wirth, Dimitrios Maroudas

December 03, 2021

<sub><sup>
First-wall materials in a fusion reactor are expected to withstand harsh conditions, with high heat and particle fluxes that modify the materials microstructure. These fluxes will create strong gradients of temperature and concentration of diverse species. Besides the He ash and the hydrogenic species, neutron particles generated in the fusion reaction will collide with the material creating intrinsic defects, such as vacancies, self-interstitials atoms (SIAs), and clusters of such point defects. These defects and the He atoms will then migrate in the presence of the aforementioned gradients. In this study, we use nonequilibrium molecular dynamics to analyze the transport of He and SIAs in the presence of a thermal gradient in tungsten. We observe that, in all cases, the defects and impurity atoms tend to migrate toward the hot regions of the tungsten sample. The resulting species concentration profiles are exponential distributions, rising toward the hot regions of the sample, in agreement with irreversible thermodynamics analysis. For both He atoms and SIAs, we find that the resulting species flux is directed opposite to the heat flux, indicating that species transport is governed by a Soret effect (thermal-gradient-driven diffusion) characterized by a negative heat of transport that drives species diffusion uphill (from the cooler to the hot regions of the sample). We demonstrate that the steady-state species profiles obtained accounting for the Soret effect vary significantly from those where temperature-gradient-driven transport is not considered and discuss the implications of such a Soret effect on the response to plasma exposure of plasma-facing tungsten.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0071935](https://doi.org/10.1063/5.0071935)

---
**Non-orthogonal computational grids for studying dislocation motion in phase field approaches**

Xiaoyao Peng, Abigail Hunter, Irene J. Beyerlein, Ricardo A. Lebensohn, Kaushik Dayal, Enrique Martínez

December 01, 2021

<sub><sup>
In this work, new non-orthogonal computational grids are implemented into a phase field model called Phase Field Dislocation Dynamics (PFDD). We demonstrate that the new non-orthogonal grid can accommodate multiple slip planes in either the face centered cubic (FCC) or body centered cubic (BCC) crystallographic systems. We show that they avoid numerical errors induced when modeling glide on inclined slip planes in an orthogonal grid. The Gibbs effect that arises in the orthogonal or rotated orthogonal grids is substantially diminished when a non-orthogonal grid is employed. A few test cases demonstrate the effectiveness of using non-orthogonal grids in solving systems with multiple non-planar slip systems.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.commatsci.2021.110834](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.commatsci.2021.110834)

---
**The mobility of small, over-pressurized helium bubbles in tungsten at 2000 K**

Z.J. Bergstrom, Danny Pérez, Enrique Martínez

December 01, 2021

<sub><sup>
Fusion reactor environments inevitably lead to the formation of high-pressure helium bubbles whose nucleation, growth, and diffusion strongly impact the performance of plasma-facing components. This research describes a diffusion mechanism of over-pressurized bubbles via a sequence of Frenkel pair nucleation, self-interstitial migration, and Frenkel pair annihilation. Molecular dynamics was used to simulate the diffusion of small bubbles in tungsten at 2000 K with helium-per-vacancy ratios in the range of 4.5 to 7. The diffusion coefficients are calculated and their dependence on helium content, number of vacancies, and number of attached self-interstitials is characterized. It is found that bubbles are most mobile when the nucleation/annihilation rates of Frenkel pairs are nearly equal and when the bubbles nucleate and annihilate a single self-interstitial. All bubbles experience a peak diffusivity, which can be as high as 10−11 m2/s decreasing with bubble size. The calculated diffusion coefficients provide valuable insight into the mobility of small, high-pressure bubbles, and can be used as input parameters in mesoscale models to improve predictions of plasma-surface interactions. (LA-UR-21-21881)
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnucmat.2021.153306](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnucmat.2021.153306)

---
**Perspectives on multiscale modelling and experiments to accelerate materials development for fusion**

Mark R. Gilbert, Kazuto Arakawa, Z.J. Bergstrom, M.J. Caturla, S. L. Dudarev, Fei Gao, Alexandra M. Goryaeva, Sanmei Hu, Xunxiang Hu, Richard J. Kurtz, A. Litnovsky, Jaime Marian, Mihai-Cosmin Marinica, Enrique Martínez, Emmanuelle A. Marquis, Daniel R. Mason, Ba Nghiep Nguyen, Pär Olsson, Yu.N. Osetsky, David J. Senor, Wahyu Setyawan, Michael P. Short, Tomoaki Suzudo, Jason R. Trelewicz, Tomohito Tsuru, Gary S. Was, Brian D. Wirth, Yang Li, Yanwen Zhang, Steven J. Zinkle

October 01, 2021

<sub><sup>
Prediction of material performance in fusion reactor environments relies on computational modelling, and will continue to do so until the first generation of fusion power plants come on line and allow long-term behaviour to be observed. In the meantime, the modelling is supported by experiments that attempt to replicate some aspects of the eventual operational conditions. In 2019, a group of leading experts met under the umbrella of the IEA to discuss the current position and ongoing challenges in modelling of fusion materials and how advanced experimental characterisation is aiding model improvement. This review draws from the discussions held during that workshop. Topics covering modelling of irradiation-induced defect production and fundamental properties, gas behaviour, clustering and segregation, defect evolution and interactions are discussed, as well as new and novel multiscale simulation approaches, and the latest efforts to link modelling to experiments through advanced observation and characterisation techniques.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnucmat.2021.153113](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnucmat.2021.153113)

---
**Development of a solute and defect concentration dependant Ising model for the study of transmutation induced segregation in neutron irradiated W–(Re, Os) systems**

Matthew J. Lloyd, Enrique Martínez, Luca Messina, D. Nguyen-Manh

September 15, 2021

<sub><sup>
Abstract In this study, radiation-induced precipitation of transmutation products is addressed via the development of a new solute and vacancy concentration dependant Ising model for the W–Re–Os system. This new model includes interactions between both Os and Re atoms with vacancies, thus facilitating more representative simulations of transmutation in fusion reactor components. Local solute concentration dependencies are introduced for the W–Re, W–Os and Re–Os pair interactions. The model correctly accounts for the repulsion between small clusters of vacancies and the attraction between larger clusters/voids, via the introduction of local vacancy concentration dependant interaction coefficients between pairs of atoms and vacancies. To parameterise the pair interactions between atoms and/or vacancies, the enthalpy of mixing, Δ H mix , for various configurations and solute/defect concentrations, was calculated using density functional theory, within 6 binary systems: W–Re, W–Os, Re–Os, W–vacancy, Re–vacancy and Os–vacancy. The new energy model was implemented into the SPPARKS Monte Carlo code, and successfully used to predict the formation of voids decorated with Re and Os solute atoms. Analysis suggests that there is a strong thermodynamic tendency for Os to bind to these voids with a comparatively weaker binding from Re atoms. The binding energies of various solute/vacancy clusters were calculated and showed that Re and Os solute atoms tend to stabilise small clusters of vacancies, increasing the attractive binding energy between the constituents.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-648x/ac1ec4](https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-648x/ac1ec4)

---
**A stochastic solver based on the residence time algorithm for crystal plasticity models**

Qianran Yu, Enrique Martínez, Javier Segurado, Jaime Marian

August 21, 2021

<sub><sup>
Abstract The deformation of crystalline materials by dislocation motion takes place in discrete amounts determined by the Burgers vector. Dislocations may move individually or in bundles, potentially giving rise to intermittent slip. This confers plastic deformation with a certain degree of variability that can be interpreted as being caused by stochastic fluctuations in dislocation behavior. However, crystal plasticity (CP) models are almost always formulated in a continuum sense, assuming that fluctuations average out over large material volumes and/or cancel out due to multi-slip contributions. Nevertheless, plastic fluctuations are known to be important in confined volumes at or below the micron scale, at high temperatures, and under low strain rate/stress deformation conditions. Here, we develop a stochastic solver for CP models based on the residence-time algorithm that naturally captures plastic fluctuations by sampling among the set of active slip systems in the crystal. The method solves the evolution equations of explicit CP formulations, which are recast as stochastic ordinary differential equations and integrated discretely in time. The stochastic CP model is numerically stable by design and naturally breaks the symmetry of plastic slip by sampling among the active plastic shear rates with the correct probability. This can lead to phenomena such as intermittent slip or plastic localization without adding external symmetry-breaking operations to the model. The method is applied to body-centered cubic tungsten single crystals under a variety of temperatures, loading orientations, and imposed strain rates.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1007/s00466-021-02073-7](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00466-021-02073-7)

---
**Strain Effects on the Diffusion Properties of Near-Surface Self-Interstitial Atoms and Adatoms in Tungsten**

Bochuan Sun, Dimitrios Maroudas, Brian D. Wirth, Enrique Martínez

July 05, 2021

<sub><sup>
Tungsten (W) is a candidate for the plasma-facing components and divertor in future fusion applications. The material will be subject to a large particle influx (mainly helium and hydrogenic species) that will form bubbles. As bubbles grow, they compress the material, adding to thermal stresses, and eject self-interstitial atoms (SIAs—isolated or in clusters) to release internal pressure. These SIAs diffuse towards the surface in large stress/strain fields and on the surface are thought to act as precursors for nanotendril formation (also known as fuzz) that develops on the material surface modifying its morphology. In this work we analyze the effect of strain on the diffusion properties of both SIAs and adatoms. Relying on atomistic simulations, we compute the average time that a SIA created in the center of a tungsten slab takes to reach a (110) surface for different strains and temperatures. This time relates to the SIA diffusivity and allows to compute the activation energy and dipole tensor including surface effects. We observe a large strain effect that significantly modifies the propensity for SIAs to reach the surface and, hence, to cluster to form dislocation loops in the bulk crystal. Strain also alters the diffusivity of the adatom although to a lesser extent. Finally, we report on the resulting surface roughness evolution and its dependence on strain.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.3389/fmats.2021.678858](https://doi.org/10.3389/fmats.2021.678858)

---
**Relative relevance of mobility and driving force on edge dislocation climb by the vacancy mechanism**

Enrique Martínez, Alankar Alankar, A. Caro, Thomas Jourdan

June 01, 2021

<sub><sup>
In this work we examine the driving force for edge dislocations to climb in α-Fe from atomistic and mesoscale viewpoints. We study the bias for the climb process depending on the dislocation orientation and the applied stress due to both the gradient of the chemical potential and the transport coefficients. Both terms are modified by the applied stress and therefore contribute to climb. Surprisingly, even though the vacancy migration barrier distribution is modified by the external stress as obtained by nudged-elastic band calculations, the mobilities resulting from a kinetic Monte Carlo model applied on the obtained energy landscape are indistinguishable, independently of the stress. Moreover, an object kinetic Monte Carlo (OKMC) model including the effect of the dislocation strain field to first order shows indeed a slight anisotropic component in the diffusion in more complex dislocation configurations. However, the OKMC results highlight the fact that the thermodynamic component is the dominant driving force. We conclude that in α-Fe under thermal conditions, the main source of bias is given by the difference in vacancy chemical potentials, which is small enough to hinder the process for dynamic atomistic simulations.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.commatsci.2021.110378](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.commatsci.2021.110378)

---
**On the cross-slip of screw dislocations in zirconium**

Y Li, Sabyasachi Chatterjee, Enrique Martínez, Nasr M. Ghoniem, Giacomo Po

April 01, 2021

<sub><sup>
We develop here a cross-slip model for zirconium based on discrete dislocation dynamics and explicit representation of partial dislocations. It is found that the basal-to-prismatic cross-slip is always energetically favorable. The corresponding stress-free activation enthalpy is ΔHa*∼0.5eV, and the critical nucleation length is close to zero. The Escaig stress on the primary plane is found to be the most effective component in influencing the activation enthalpy. By contrast, prismatic-to-basal cross-slip is activated only if the Schmid stress on the conjugate plane is higher than ∼1GPa, with an activation enthalpy larger than 5 eV. We propose that basal slip of 〈a〉 screw dislocations in Zr is mediated by the formation and subsequent lateral migration of kink pairs formed by double cross-slip. The proposed mechanism is consistent with experimental observations on the temperature-dependence of the critical resolved shear stress (CRSS) and the wavy motion of 〈a〉-basal slip.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2021.116764](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2021.116764)

---
**Helium implantation damage resistance in nanocrystalline W-Ta-V-Cr high entropy alloys**

Osman El-Atwani, Andrew Alvarado, Kaan Unal, Saryu Fensin, John Hinks, Graeme Greaves, Jon K. Baldwin, Stuart A. Maloy, Enrique Martínez

March 01, 2021

<sub><sup>
Nanocrystalline W-Ta-Cr-V high entropy alloys have shown promising properties as nuclear fusion materials with enhanced radiation resistance to heavy ion irradiation and negligible radiation hardening. In this work, we investigate the performance of the alloy under low energy helium (He) implantation up to a fluence of 1.25 × 1017 cm−2 at 1223 K. We observe a uniform high density of very small (~2–3 nm) bubbles grown at a slow rate along with enhanced He bubble damage resistance, further marked by no preferential bubble formation on the grain boundaries, even at much higher fluences compared to previously implanted tungsten grades. First principle calculations of He formation and migration energies in this alloy indicate deep energetic wells on the potential landscape and low diffusivity of He compared to pure W. The results imply higher overall (considering both grain matrices and grain boundaries) implantation resistance due to slow He diffusion and accumulation, and confirm the enhanced vacancy-self interstitial recombination argument in these alloys.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtener.2020.100599](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtener.2020.100599)

---
**Collision cascade effects near an edge dislocation dipole in alpha-Fe: Induced dislocation mobility and enhanced defect clustering**

Santiago Heredia-Ávalos, Cristian D. Denton, Juan Carlos Moreno-Marı́n, Enrique Martínez, M.J. Caturla

January 01, 2021

<sub><sup>
Collision cascades near a 1/2⟨111⟩{110} edge dipole in alpha-iron have been studied using molecular dynamics simulations for a recoil energy of 20 keV and two temperatures, 20 K and 300 K. These simulations show that the collision cascade induces the migration of the dislocations through glide along its slip plane. The motion of the dislocations starts at the peak of the collision cascade and expands a time scale much longer than the cascade duration, until restoring the equilibrium distance of the dipole, regardless of the damage produced by the cascade. At the initial stages, kinks are formed at the dislocation that enhance glide. When defects reach the dislocations, jogs are produced. We show that the initial dislocation motion is triggered by the shock wave of the collision cascade. The cascade morphology is also strongly influenced by the presence of the dislocations, having an elongated form at the peak of the displacement, which demonstrates the strong interaction of the dislocations with the cascade even at the early stages. Finally, we show that larger vacancy clusters are formed in the presence of dislocations compared to isolated cascades and that these clusters are larger for 300 K compared to 20 K.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnucmat.2020.152459](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnucmat.2020.152459)

---
**A pathway to synthesizing single-crystal Fe and FeCr films**

Benjamin Derby, Jacob Cooper, Timothy G. Lach, Enrique Martínez, Hyosim Kim, J. Kevin Baldwin, Djamel Kaoumi, Danny J. Edwards, Daniel K. Schreiber, Blas P. Uberuaga, Ning Li

December 01, 2020

<sub><sup>
Nuclear reactor environments provide a unique scientific and engineering challenge wherein materials must tolerate prolonged exposure to concurrent irradiation, elevated temperatures, and corrosive media. However, uncontrolled variability in material composition and structure often prohibits truly single-variable experiments that can reveal basic aspects of environmental damage. Magnetron sputtering is used here to provide a more controlled model system for these fundamental studies, yielding reproducible single-crystal Fe and FeCr thin films containing 8 and 18 at.% Cr. Electron microscopy is used to determine the systematic correlations between growth conditions and the resulting film microstructure and surface morphology. It is found that the substrate temperature and applied radio frequency (RF) bias can be tuned to obtain consistent homogeneous and single crystal films with a minimal amount of Ar impurities from the RF bias process. Epitaxial, single-crystal Fe films are obtained on MgO substrates at 500 °C with 10 Watt (W) RF bias deposition. However, when Cr is alloyed with Fe, higher substrate temperatures (600 °C) and applied RF biases (15 W) are required to achieve a similar epitaxial single-crystal FeCr film. Accelerated molecular dynamics simulations reveal that Cr impedes surface transport, explaining the need for higher temperature and bias during the growth of the Cr-bearing films.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.surfcoat.2020.126346](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.surfcoat.2020.126346)

---
**Relative relevance of mobility and driving force on edge dislocation climb by the vacancy mechanism**

Enrique Martínez, Alankar Alankar, A. Caro, Thomas Jourdan

November 06, 2020

<sub><sup>
In this work we examine the driving force for edge dislocations to climb in $\alpha$-Fe from atomistic and mesoscale viewpoints. We study the bias for the climb process depending on the dislocation orientation and the applied stress as coming from both the gradient of the chemical potential and the transport coefficients. Both terms are modified by the applied stress and therefore contribute to climb. Surprisingly, even though the vacancy migration barrier distribution is modified by the external stress as obtained by nudged-elastic band calculations, the mobilities resulting from a kinetic Monte Carlo model applied on the obtained energy landscape are indistinguishable, independently of the stress. Moreover, an object kinetic Monte Carlo (OKMC) model including the effect of the dislocation strain field to first order shows indeed a slight anisotropic component in the diffusion in more complex dislocation configurations. However, the OKMC results highlight the fact that the thermodynamic component is the dominant driving force. We conclude that in $\alpha$-Fe under thermal conditions, the main source of bias is given by the difference in vacancy chemical potentials, which is small enough to hinder the process for dynamic atomistic simulations.
</sup></sub>

[None](None)

---
**Point defect evolution under irradiation: Finite size effects and spatio-temporal correlations**

Enrique Martínez, Frédéric Soisson, Maylise Nastar

October 01, 2020

<sub><sup>
The evolution of point defect concentrations under irradiation is controlled by their diffusion properties, and by their formation and elimination mechanisms. The latter includes the mutual recombination of vacancies and interstitials, and the elimination of point defects at sinks. Two models are traditionally used to predict the defect concentration evolution, the standard rate theory (SRT) and the atomistic kinetic Monte Carlo (AKMC). We show in this work a large discrepancy in the defect concentrations between both methods when the average number of defects in the AKMC simulation box is close or lower than one. The reason is that AKMC naturally captures strong space and time correlations between vacancies and interstitials generated by the finite size of the periodic simulation box. These correlations strongly affect the recombination rate and the point defect concentrations. SRT fails to predict such correlations, and the corresponding solution deviates from the more accurate solution given by the AKMC simulation under similar conditions. These finite size correlation effects are strong when the elimination of point defects occurs by recombination only, but can still be significant in the presence of sinks. In order to account for the spacio-temporal correlation in a continuum framework, we introduce a Correlated Pair Theory (CPT). This theory fully takes into account the correlations between vacancy and interstitial pairs and predicts point defect concentrations in good agreement with AKMC simulations. Inversely, if the goal is for the AKMC to reproduce defect concentrations in bulk using small simulation boxes, the naturally occurring correlations need to be corrected. We show here that the CPT can be used to modify the elimination rates in the AKMC simulations, so as to yield point defect concentrations in agreement with SRT.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnucmat.2020.152233](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnucmat.2020.152233)

---
**Prediction of the Al-rich part of the Al-Cu phase diagram using cluster expansion and statistical mechanics**

S. Liu, Enrique Martínez, J. LLorca

August 01, 2020

<sub><sup>
The thermodynamic properties of α-Al and other phases (GP zones, θ'', θ' and θ) in the Al-rich part of the Al-Cu system have been obtained by means of the cluster expansion formalism in combination with statistical mechanics. This information was used to build the Al-rich part of the Al-Cu phase-diagram taking into account vibrational entropic contributions for θ', as those of the other phases were negligible. The simulation predictions of the phase boundaries between α-Al and either θ'', θ' or θ phases as a function of temperature are in good agreement with experimental data and extend the phase boundaries to a wider temperature range. The DFT calculations reveal the presence of a number of metastable Guinier-Preston-zone type configurations that may coexist with α-Al and θ'' at low temperatures. They also demonstrate that θ' is the stable phase below 550K but it is replaced by θ above this temperature due to the vibrational entropic contribution to the Gibbs energy of θ'. This work shows how the combination of cluster expansion and statistical mechanics can be used to expand our knowledge of the phase diagram of metallic alloys and to provide Gibbs free energies of different phases that can be used as input in mesoscale simulations of precipitation.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2020.05.018](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2020.05.018)

---
**Opposite trends in the microstructural evolution of irradiated ceramics driven by asymmetric defect migration energies**

A. Debelle, Jean-Paul Crocombette, Alexandre Boulle, Enrique Martínez, Blas P. Uberuaga, Diana Bachiller‐Perea, L. Thomé, M. Behar

June 11, 2020

<sub><sup>
X-ray diffraction experiments complemented with numerical simulations reveal that two ceramic oxide materials, c-ZrO$_2$ and MgO, under similar ion irradiation conditions, exhibit an unexpected, opposite response with varying the irradiation temperature. In fact, the final damage state is reached faster in c-ZrO$_2$ with increasing temperature than in MgO. Rate equation cluster dynamics simulations show that defect clustering is favored in c-ZrO$_2$ while defect annealing is enhanced in MgO. This contrasting behavior can be rationalized in terms of the asymmetry in the interstitial vs. vacancy defect migration energies. We demonstrate that these trends allow qualitatively reproducing the evolution with temperature of the experimental disorder.
</sup></sub>

[None](None)

---
**Prediction of the Al-rich part of the Al-Cu phase diagram using cluster
  expansion and statistical mechanics**

S. Liu, Enrique Martínez, Javier Llorca

May 07, 2020

<sub><sup>
The thermodynamic properties of {\alpha}-Al and other phases (GP zones, {\theta}'', {\theta}' and {\theta}) in the Al-rich part of the Al-Cu system have been obtained by means of the cluster expansion formalism in combination with statistical mechanics. This information was used to build the Al-rich part of the Al-Cu phase-diagram taking into account vibrational entropic contributions for {\theta}', as those of the other phases were negligible. The simulation predictions of the phase boundaries between {\alpha}-Al and either {\theta}'', {\theta}' or {\theta} phases as a function of temperature are in good agreement with experimental data and extend the phase boundaries to a wider temperature range. The DFT calculations reveal the presence of a number of metastable Guinier-Preston-zone type configurations that may coexist with {\alpha}-Al and {\theta}'' at low temperatures. They also demonstrate that {\theta}' is the stable phase below 550K but it is replaced by {\theta} above this temperature due to the vibrational entropic contribution to the Gibbs energy of {\theta}'. This work shows how the combination of cluster expansion and statistical mechanics can be used to expand our knowledge of the phase diagram of metallic alloys and to provide Gibbs free energies of different phases that can be used as input in mesoscale simulations of precipitation.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2005.03605](https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2005.03605)

---
**Temperature threshold for preferential bubble formation on grain boundaries in tungsten under in-situ helium irradiation**

Osman El-Atwani, William H. Cunningham, Danny Pérez, Enrique Martínez, Jason R. Trelewicz, M. Li, Stuart A. Maloy

April 01, 2020

<sub><sup>
Understanding a material's radiation tolerance requires examining its performance under different irradiation conditions. Here, we investigate the radiation tolerance in terms of helium bubble damage in tungsten irradiated in-situ with 16 keV helium at 1073 K and 1223 K. Damage evolution represented by helium bubble density, size and total change in volume in the grain matrices and the grain boundaries are quantified as a function of fluence. Preferential large bubble formation and a higher change in volume on the grain boundaries occurred at 1223 K, suggesting faster migration of certain helium-vacancy complexes as confirmed by a diffusion-reaction model.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scriptamat.2020.01.013](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scriptamat.2020.01.013)

---
**Reaction Rates in Nitromethane under High Pressure from Density Functional Tight Binding Molecular Dynamics Simulations**

Romain Perriot, Marc J. Cawkwell, Enrique Martínez, Shawn McGrane

March 31, 2020

<sub><sup>
We use density functional tight binding (DFTB) molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to determine the reaction rates of nitromethane CH3NO2 (NM) under high pressure (P = 14-28 GPa), and temperature (T = 1450-1850 K). DFTB-MD simulations performed with the same initial conditions (P0, T0) reveal a stochastic behavior, both in terms of reaction times and chemical paths. By running series of MD simulations, we are able to obtain average reaction times with quantified errors and devise a simple two-step model for NM explosion: ignition/explosion. While our model bypasses the chemical complexity due to the numerous reaction paths and intermediates observed during reactions, the chemistry is accounted for via the accurate parameterization of the DFTB model, and our results suggest a single main reaction pathway for the pressure range considered here, dominated in the earlier stages by the formation of the aci-ion, CH2NOO-. By fitting our data to a Frank-Kamenetskii model, we extract prefactors and pressure-independent activation energies and volumes for the ignition and explosion stages. A two-step model is then built and compared to experimental observations. Single and two-step Arrhenius models are also provided for comparison with literature data. This work presents an efficient way of investigating the reactivity of high explosives by performing electronic structure-based MD simulations and provides reaction rates for simplified models that can be implemented into hydrocodes.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpca.9b11897](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpca.9b11897)

---
**Influence of the stress state on the cross-slip free energy barrier in Al: An atomistic investigation**

G. Esteban-Manzanares, R. Santos-Güemes, Ioannis Papadimitriou, Enrique Martínez, J. LLorca

February 01, 2020

<sub><sup>
The influence of the stress state on the cross-slip rate in Al was analyzed by means of molecular dynamics simulations and transition state theory. The activation energy barrier in the absence of thermal energy was determined through the nudged elastic band method while the cross-slip rates were determined using molecular dynamics simulations for different magnitudes of the Schmid stress on the cross-slip plane, and of the Escaig stresses on the cross-slip and glide planes. The enthalpy barrier and the effective attempt frequency were determined from the average rates of cross-slip obtained from the molecular dynamics simulations. It was found that the different stress states influence the cross-slip rate assuming harmonic transition state theory. Moreover, the theoretical contributions to the enthalpy barrier (configurational and due to the interaction of the applied stress with the local stress field created by the defect) were identified from the atomistic simulations while the entropic contribution to the activation energy could be estimated by the Meyer-Neldel rule. Based on these results, an analytical expression of the activation enthalpy for cross-slip in Al as a function of the different combinations of Schmid and Escaig stress states was developed and validated. This expression can be easily used in dislocation dynamics simulations to evaluate the probability of cross-slip of screw dislocation segments.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2019.10.055](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actamat.2019.10.055)

---
**Virtual modelling of stress paths CKoU and CKoD on collapsible porous clayey soils**

C Juan Carlos Ruge, Enrique Martínez, S. Bañol, Juan Diego León, Fausto Molina-Gómez

January 22, 2020

<sub><sup>
In geotechnical engineering one of the challenges is the soil characterization. Nevertheless, currently it exists computational tools, which permits estimate the soil behaviour from information obtained in the laboratory. This document addresses the numerical modelling of triaxial tests set with Ko consolidation during its shear stage by means of single element test tool. The work methodology was based on the stress paths comparison between lab data and numerical simulations with three different constitutive models: (i) Mohr-Coulomb, (ii) Cam-Clay Modified, (iii) Hypoplastic. Such stress paths were obtained in drained and undrained conditions. The soil material corresponds to a porous collapsible clay from Brasilia (Brazil). Results show the calibration of the parameters for each constitutive model. Besides, presents the stress-strain curves until achieving the critical state condition in the simulations. Finally, it was established the constitutive model that presents the best fitting to the real behaviour of this kind of material, under specific conditions for advanced triaxial tests.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.23967/j.rimni.2019.11.003](https://doi.org/10.23967/j.rimni.2019.11.003)

---
**Atomistic simulations of helium, hydrogen, and self-interstitial diffusion inside dislocation cores in tungsten**

Nithin Mathew, Danny Pérez, Enrique Martínez

January 10, 2020

<sub><sup>
Tritium retention and microstructural modifications due to helium accumulation are two of the main concerns regarding plasma-facing materials in fusion applications. Crystal defects in tungsten (W), such as grain boundaries and dislocations, can serve as traps or channels for diffusion of hydrogen (H) and helium (He), and, as such, can affect the transport of these species. In this work, we study the diffusion of hydrogen, helium and self-interstitial atoms (SIA) inside screw and edge dislocations in W using molecular dynamics simulations. Stable sites for interstitials in dislocations are identified using a free-volume analysis and energy barriers for diffusion are predicted using a combination of the nudged elastic band (NEB) method and finite temperature molecular dynamics simulations. Overall, the simulations predict higher energetic barriers for He and H diffusion in both screw and edge dislocations compared to the bulk. However, the diffusion mechanism in both dislocations are shown to differ: simulations predict that interstitials are constrained to move in short channels inside the edge dislocation core so that long-range diffusion along the dislocation line happens only with the motion of the dislocation. In contrast, 1D diffusion of the interstitial along the dislocation core, independent of dislocation motion, is observed for screw dislocations.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1088/1741-4326/ab6061](https://doi.org/10.1088/1741-4326/ab6061)

---
**Coherent phase decomposition in the Pd–H system**

R. B. Schwarz, A. K. Khachaturyan, A. Caro, M. I. Baskes, Enrique Martínez

January 06, 2020

<sub><sup>

</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1007/s10853-019-04179-z](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10853-019-04179-z)

---
**DFT-Parameterized Object Kinetic Monte Carlo Simulations of Radiation Damage**

Enrique Martínez, M.J. Caturla, Jaime Marian

January 01, 2020

<sub><sup>

</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-44680-6_137](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-44680-6_137)

---
**Kinetic Monte Carlo Algorithms for Nuclear Materials Applications**

J.P. Balbuena, M.J. Caturla, Enrique Martínez

January 01, 2020

<sub><sup>
Microstructure evolution of irradiated materials is a complex phenomenon that involves time and length scales that can expand several orders of magnitude. Defects produced in the irradiation can interact with the existing microstructure, sometimes inducing changes in the mechanical, electrical, or even magnetic properties. The selection of the most adequate material for nuclear applications requires an understanding at a fundamental level of the evolution of these defects during the lifetime of the reactors. Therefore, very efficient simulation tools, with physical and accurate parameters must be used. In this review, one of the computational methods that is commonly employed to study defect evolution, kinetic Monte Carlo, is described. The differences and similarities between three algorithms are explained: atomistic (or lattice), object, and event kinetic Monte Carlo. In order to reveal the applicability of these methods in the nuclear field, examples are given for the case of one of the candidates for first wall materials for both fusion and IV generation fission reactors: FeCr alloys. Finally, the limitations of the models to describe these systems and the current efforts to improve the predictive capabilities of this approach, as well as other developments in the field are discussed.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-44680-6_120](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-44680-6_120)

---
**Accelerated Molecular Dynamics Methods in a Massively Parallel World**

Richard J. Zamora, Danny Pérez, Enrique Martínez, Blas P. Uberuaga, Arthur F. Voter

January 01, 2020

<sub><sup>

</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-44677-6_25](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-44677-6_25)

---
**Strengthening of Al–Cu alloys by Guinier–Preston zones: Predictions from atomistic simulations**

G. Esteban-Manzanares, B. Bellón, Enrique Martínez, Ioannis Papadimitriou, J. LLorca

November 01, 2019

<sub><sup>
A scale bridging strategy based in molecular statics and molecular dynamics simulations in combination with transition state theory has been developed to determine the flow stress of Al–Cu alloy containing Guinier–Preston zones. The athermal contribution to the flow stress was determined from the Taylor model, while the thermal contribution was obtained from the obstacle strength and the free energy barrier. These two magnitudes were obtained by means of molecular statics and molecular dynamics simulations of the interaction of edge dislocations with Guinier–Preston zones in two different orientations. The predictions of the model were compared with experimental data and were in reasonable agreement, showing the potential of atomistic simulations in combination with transition state theory to predict the flow stress of metallic alloys strengthened with precipitates.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmps.2019.07.018](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmps.2019.07.018)

---
**Influence of the stress state on the cross-slip free energy barrier in
  Al: an atomistic investigation**

G. Esteban-Manzanares, R. Santos-Güemes, Papadimitriou, Enrique Martínez, Javier Llorca

October 31, 2019

<sub><sup>
The influence of the stress state on the cross-slip rate in Al was analyzed by means of molecular dynamics simulations and transition state theory. The activation energy barrier in the absence of thermal energy was determined through the nudged elastic band method while the cross-slip rates were determined using molecular dynamics simulations for different magnitudes of the Schmid stress on the cross-slip plane, and of the Escaig stresses on the cross-slip and glide planes. The enthalpy barrier and the effective attempt frequency were determined from the average rates of cross-slip obtained from the molecular dynamics simulations. It was found that the different stress states influence the cross-slip rate assuming harmonic transition state theory. Moreover, the theoretical contributions to the enthalpy barrier (configurational and due to the interaction of the applied stress with the local stress field created by the defect) were identified from the atomistic simulations while the entropic contribution to the activation energy could be estimated by the Meyer-Neldel rule. Based on these results, an analytical expression of the activation enthalpy for cross-slip in Al as a function of the different combinations of Schmid and Escaig stress states was developed and validated. This expression can be easily used in dislocation dynamics simulations to evaluate the probability of cross-slip of screw dislocation segments.
</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.1910.14556](https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.1910.14556)

---
**Accelerated Molecular Dynamics Methods in a Massively Parallel World**

Richard J. Zamora, Danny Pérez, Enrique Martínez, Blas P. Uberuaga, Arthur F. Voter

October 10, 2019

<sub><sup>

</sup></sub>

[https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-42913-7_25-2](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-42913-7_25-2)

---
